SEO has been shaken but not
[Music]
stirred Google have ditched sge search
generative experience renamed it Google
AI overviews and it's just dropped in
the US let's dive in what that means for
your B2B Tech or Service Company hey I'm
Sam Dunning founder at breaking
bb.com and if you want to join thousands
of Legends enjoying my ultimate B2B SEO
guide head over to Breaking bb.com hit
that newsletter Tab and you can unlock
it
instantly so Google have just rolled out
AI overviews in the USA they renamed it
from SG to AI overviews let's take a
deep dive into what that actually means
so look at the article that the folks of
Google have put out it looks like if we
look at this quick animation here if
you're on the video version of this
episode essentially you can do a search
as detailed as you want usually a
question or a query so for example in
the example they've given here how do
you clean a fabric sofa straight away
you get instant results instead of
having to do the traditional way of
clicking through trolling through the
listings or articles whatever you're
presented with and clicking through a
link and trying to extract the
information you get a full AI generated
page instantly walking you through your
detailed query from what Google have
said so far it looks like a lot of this
is geared up to either food or travel
from what I can see on the latest
article on the keyword blog so you can
do as detailed questions as you want so
it could be I'm planning a trip from New
York to Boston can you give me a
breakdown for the three days of travel
and what I should think about doing
and straight away you'll get a response
that fills the page from AI instantly
generated with a bunch of ideas so what
does this mean well for folks that are
maybe in the BTC business to Consumer
space that maybe been getting a lot of
website traffic from those kind of high
top of funnel information based queries
it could mean that your website traffic
is going to take a
hit however on this show we focus on B2B
typically B2B service or B2B technology
companies we give advice for whether
that's SEO website or B2B Marketing in
general and when it comes to my
recommendations in fact if I look at a
quot excuse the funny James Bond picture
of me if you're tuning on on the video
Let's scroll down to this quote from Liz
Reed the head of Google so even with not
all searches and it looks like they're
not they're rolling this out steadily in
the in the US so it looks like it's not
affecting all searches they did say that
it's kind of mostly going to be around
kind of travel food those kind of
searches and then it looks like it's
going to expand out into more sectors
and it looks to be more query based so
top of funnel rather than bottom of
funnel which will dive into a sec but
Liz Reed head of Google search said we
see that the links included in AI
overviews get more clicks than if the
page had appeared as a traditional web
listing for that query which seems a
little bit difficult to understand
because if we've got the full top top of
fold covered with those instant AI
results it seems a bit hard to
understand that will improve the click
through from the traditional search
engine results page where you've got
various links to to click through but we
could be wrong but getting to the point
so if you are a B2B business how will
this impact you well in my opinion if
you're a B2B service or B2B tech company
then anyway you should be thinking about
when it comes to SEO bottom of the
funnel upwards approach so your SEO
strategy shouldn't really be starting
with informational searches which it
looks like a lot of the AI results are
going to attack initially high level
queries so how to do X best way to do
something what should I consider when
I'm doing this or give me a breakdown of
this whereas if you're in B2B Tech or
service the first thing you should look
at is what is someone searching for when
they need my offer within my Niche today
and they're ready to have that sales
conversation so as I often talk about if
you're in the proposal space that might
be best proposal software for sales
teams or best proposal software for
Finance in our space in SEO game we're
targeting things like B2B SEO agency or
B2B web design agency or going into
niches like B2B SAS web design agency
B2B SAS SEO agency B2B podcast agency
those are some of the main terms we go
for because that's bottom of the funnel
stuff what someone will search with high
intent when they're ready to have that
sales conversation
and speak to a sales rep about getting
something done so if you're doing that
kind of approach I can't see just yet
how Google can attack that with AI
because it would be super biased if they
kind of choose one company to to take up
the top above fold
results so for a while if you're doing
that bottom of the funnel SEO and you're
building out whether it's a solution
page a service page a listicle page some
type of article to be best in class and
what I mean by Best in Class is it
attacks E A which Google rolled out some
time ago with their helpful content
update last year experience expertise
Authority trust and if you're building
these pages to resonate with Target
clients Focus customers AK the ones that
you want to build trust with and convert
into leads demos conversations whatever
that next step is then your content
should be built from Rock Solid research
so talking about the problems they care
about fixing talking about the jobs they
want to get done sharing the impact and
not fixing the problems positioning Your
solution as the offer to those problems
that they're facing and sharing how you
can fix it using examples within your
page using social proof like
testimonials video reviews walkthroughs
case studies answering those FAQs those
common questions and handling those
objections all within the page and
making sure when you are building these
pages to make sure they are best in
class you quite literally Google the
keyword you're going after just like I
did when we were at breaking B2B when we
wanted to rank for B2B SEO agency which
we got a top rank for within 90 days we
literally Googled the term in our case
btbs agency look what the top three or
so organic Pages were structured and
looked for angles gaps that we could one
up them in every way whether that was
talking more about the problem we fix
giving more examples sharing more
results answering questions they weren't
addressing and looking for all those
ways we could one up them so if you're
doing bottom of the funnel upwards SEO
where you start with folks that are
ready to have a sales conversation now
right now it looks like AI overview
isn't going to massively impact that
when you're building kind of a bottom of
the funnel upwards structure to SEO
which really is a b to be Tech or
Service Company if you're going for a
revenue focused SEO strategy which you
should anyway that is the way to go and
they have it I hope you found this
breakdown of Google AI overviews useful
and if you want to join thousands of
Legends enjoying my weekday newsletter
so you get insights into my latest SEO
tips unusual B2B mark marketing battle
tested ideas along with past podcast
episodes head over to breaking bb.com
and hit that newsletter Tab and with
that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers